nrrnonucrros. lxxi

tiou'meagerly filled up the void they had left3 and
a few echos only have come down to ns from the
centurias which may have elapsed between the first
settlement of the Saxeus ou our shores, and the
successful and most glorious work of Gregory3 dull
and fragmentary voices telliug of generations which
have past away from us for ever!

But if we owe an era to Augustino, what is that
likely to have beenl Surely uo other than that
which had been in use in the place from which he
came. I see no reason to doubt that this was the
era 01 the Iacamntioa of our Lcrd ,Î‡ perhaps also the
Cycla of the Indictions. What other could in fact
be used'l Certainly not the years 01 Roman empe-
rors or popes, unknown to the new converte even by
name: hardly the regnal years of petty sovereigus,
numerous, far apart, some still addicted to Pagan
superstitione, many still unknown even by name 10

the missiouaries, all still uncertain iu what year
their reigns began. But if other reasons had been
wanting, there was one which seems likely to have
been decisivo. The great Christian festival 01 the
nativity fell, by a wonderful chance, upon that
mystical night which the mother celebrated among
all the natione 01 the north, with solemn religious

observances aud ceremonias. In the spirit which
then, and since, animated the missiouaries of the
faith, this day, holy among the heathen, was espe-
cially adopted by their toachers, and became for
the new converte the commencement 01 the year.
From the night of Christ's birth the years were
heuccforth reokoned, and what so natural, so
apparently unavoidable, as the affixiug 01 Christ's
date to the year so commencedl Another and
strong ground may be assigned for the belief here
expressed. The Romans found Christianity in Eng-

 

